Let's do a fun exercise to test our understanding and we're gonna use lambda expressions.
Now I want you to create a lambda expression that is going to square our list.
So let's say we have my list and this my list will have 5 4 3.
Now I want you to create a one line lambda expression that's going to print for us A squared list.
So five to the power of two will be twenty five forward to the power of two will be 16 and three to
the power of two will be nine.
So a list that contains those values using lambda expressions so that's your first challenge is to square
the next challenge.
And this one's a little tough.
We're gonna do some list sorting must you square here just sequencing and in this list sorting.
I have a list in this list.
Well it's a tough one.
We have a list that is a trouble of 0 2 then a couple let's say 4 3 and a couple let's say 9 9.
And then finally a couple that is 10 negative 1.
Now what I want you to do is to sort this based on the second value to make sure this is a comma so
that is.
I want this to be sorted so that this couple is first because minus one is the lowest then this couple
because two is the next highest.
Then this couple then this double.
So how can you do that using lambda expressions.
Now this is a tough one.
So if you don't get it don't worry.
Pause the video here.
Take your time.
See if you can solve this.
Otherwise I'm going to get going with the answers this one should be fairly easy to you.
Right.
We can just simply do a map function or you know what.
Let's just say new list is going to equal a list that we're going to map over
and in here nothing we haven't seen before.
I'm going to say lambda
number is going to be number to the power of to and the list that I'm going to give it will be the my
list if I run this.
There you go.
Nice and easy nice easy one liner.
What about this one though.
This one's a little tough.
And you really have to think about we've learned that we have the DOT sort method right and these sort
actually.
Well let's see what happens if I just sort.
Like this if I do print a dot sort and I click Run I get non because it modifies the list in place so
let's just print a.
After we have sorted it five click Run.
All right.
It I mean it looks like it's sorted with the first key.
What if we move this in here in the middle and click Run.
All right.
Looks like it's sorting it for me but it's sorting it based on this first item.
But I want this second item or what we call the second key to be this sorting factor and if you see
here if we do sort I have to give it a key and we want the key to be to.
So how can we do that.
Well we can do something like this.
We can say key is going to equal each one of the second keys and we can use a lambda expression here.
We can say lambda.
So the default parameter would be lambda of X and then simply say x 1.
Let's go over this.
What I'm saying is hey I want you to run the sort function.
And the key for the sort function when I'm sorting through everything is I want it to iterate over each
item that I'm going to get.
That is X is going to be this couple.
And I want you to use the value which we're going to return which is the second one.
So the key is always going to be by the second item.
Now if we run this look at that we're able to sort by the second item.
Now if you didn't get this don't worry this is quite tough and it's hard for you to get used to the
syntax or know that sort worked in this way but the goal is to show you that this is a common thing
that you can do with lambda functions in a way to make sure that you can sort with different keys.
For example this would work with a dictionary or another list inside of a list.
This is a common way to adjust your sorting.
And it's a pattern that you just have to remember.
But it shows you the power of lambda where we don't really have to write these complicated functions
if we really just needed a one time function and just a function that returns something simple lambda
is a great tool to use.
But if you didn't get this like I said don't worry this is one of those things that you'll just have
to remember.
Let's take a break and I'll see you in the next one.
Bob.